[APPSEC-52386] ASM ATO docs page (#22497)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/account_takeover_protection.md

## Setting up ATO detection and prevention

ASM provides managed detections of ATO attacks.

Effective ATO detection and prevention requires the following:

1. Instrumenting your production login endpoints. This enables detection with ASM-managed rules.
2. Remote configuration. This enables blocking attacks and pushing remote instrumentation from the Datadog user interface.
3. Notifications. Ensures you are notified of compromised accounts.
4. Reviewing your first detection. Understand how automated protection fits in with your attacks and escalation requirements.

## Instrumenting your production login endpoints

The following user activity events are used for ATO tracking.

| Enrichment              | Auto-instrumented | Use case                                     |
|-------------------------|-------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| `users.login.success`     | True              | Account takeover detection rule requirement       |
| `users.login.failure`     | True              | Account takeover detection rule requirement       |
| `users.exists`            | False             | Signal review and determining if attack is targeted |

> | `user.password_reset`     | False             | Detection rule requirement to identify user enumeration through password reset |

Reviewer: `user.password_reset` should be  `users.password_reset`

> For steps on enabling tracking for events that are not automatically instrumented, go to User [Monitoring and Protection][1].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For steps on enabling tracking for events that are not automatically instrumented, go to [User Monitoring and Protection][1].
```

## Remote Configuration

[Remote Configuration][4] enables ASM users to instrument apps with enrichments such as `users.exists` or custom [business logic][5] data in near real time.

## Notifications

[Notifications][6] are a flexible method to ensure the correct team members are informed of an attack. Collaboration [Integrations][7] with common communication methods are available out of the box.

## Review your first detection

ASM highlights the most relevant information and suggests actions to take based on the detection type. It also indicates what actions have been taken.

{{<img src="security/ato/review_first_detection2.png" alt="An Account Takeover signal showing different highlighted areas of interest" style="width:100%;">}}

**Compromised Users**

Compromised and targeted users can be reviewed and blocked within **Signals** and **Traces**.

**Signals**

Individual users can be blocked in **Signals** using **Targeted Users**.

{{<img src="security/ato/compromised_users_signals2.png" alt="Compromised users shown on a security signal" style="width:100%;">}}

**Traces**

> Individual users can be blocked on **Traces** in **User**. Click on any user to show this option.

Reviewer: in the **User drawer**

(the user drawer is what you see when you click on a user)

{{<img src="security/ato/traces_block_user.png" alt="Compromised users shown in the security trace explorer" style="width:100%;">}}

## Best practices for signal review and protection

Review the following best practices to help you detect and mitigate account takeover attacks.

### Develop an incident response plan

> Review the follow sections to help you develop an incident response plan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Review the following sections to help you develop an incident response plan.
```

#### Do you use authenticated scanners?

Identify trusted IPs, preventing them from being automatically blocked. This step is useful for the following: 

- Approved scanning sources that attempt to log in.
- Corporate sites with large numbers of users behind single IP addresses.

> To configure trusted IPs, use [Passlist](https://app.datadoghq.com/security/appsec/passlist) and add a `Monitored` entry. Monitored entries are excluded from automated blocking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure trusted IPs, use [Passlist](https://app.datadoghq.com/security/appsec/passlist) and add a `Monitored` entry. Monitored entries are excluded from automated blocking.
```
Convert to a reference link

> {{<img src="security/ato/passlist2.png" alt="Monitored passlist" style="width:100%;">}}

Reviewer: I believe this image is from Prod and leaks private info. It should be replaced with an image from the demo environment. https://app.datadoghq.com/security/appsec/passlist

#### Know your customer authentication profile

Review the networks your customers authenticate from, such as:

- Mobile ISPs
- Corporate VPNs
- Residential IPs
- Data centers

Understanding authentication sources can inform your blocking strategy. 

For example, you might *not* expect customers to authenticate with your consumer application from data centers. Consequently, you might have more freedom to block the IPs associated with that data center. 

Nevertheless, if your customers source entirely from Mobile ISPs, you might have an impact to legitimate traffic if you block those ISPs.

> Consider who your customers are, and their account name structure?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider who your customers are, and their account name structure.
```

> Do your customers match these attributes: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do your customers match these attributes?
```

> 1. Employees with an expected ID format such as integers, corporate domains, or combinations of numbers and text.

Reviewer 2: Since these items aren't ordered, you might use a plain bulleted list.

2. SaaS customers using domain names associated with the customer company.
3. Consumers using free providers such as Gmail or Proton Mail.

> Understanding your customers account name structure helps you to determine if attacks are targeted or blind attempts at credential stuffing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Understanding your customers' account name structure helps you determine if attacks are targeted or blind attempts at credential stuffing.
```

### Distributed attacks

Blocking advanced distributed attacks is often a business decision because attacks can impact availability, user funds, and legitimate users. 

> Here are three critical components for success in thwarting these attacks:

Reviewer: mitigating is a security focused term - more appropriate than thwarting.

1. Proper onboarding: Are you configured for blocking with ASM?

> 2. Proper configuration: Ensure you have correctly set client IPs and X-Forwarded-For (XFF) HTTP headers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Proper configuration: Ensure you have correctly set client IPs and X-Forwarded-For (XFF) HTTP headers.
```
Will the customer know what it means to do this correctly?

> 3. Internal communication plans: Communication with security teams, services owners, and product leads is critical to understanding the impact of mitigating large scale attacks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Internal communication plans: Communication with security teams, service owners, and product leads is critical to understanding the impact of mitigating large scale attacks.
```

<div class="alert alert-info">Responders can identify service owners using the tags in all ASM signals.</div>

### Know your trends

Use the [Threats Overview][11] to monitor business logic trends, such as spikes in failed logins against your services.

{{<img src="security/ato/threats_overview2.png" alt="Threats Overview" style="width:100%;">}}

### Signal review

Review the following best practices for signals.

#### IP addresses

Use short durations for blocking attackers. 15 minutes or less is recommended. It is uncommon for attackers to reuse IP addresses in distributed account takeovers.

#### Data centers

> Some attacks are launched using inexpensive virtual private servers (VPS) and hosting providers. Attackers are motivated by how their low cost and automation let them access new IP addresses at the data center.

Reviewer: replace 

> let them 
with

> enable access to

Many consumer applications have low occurrences of user authentication from data centers, especially low cost data centers and VPS providers. Consider blocking the entire data center or ASN when the network range is small, and not within your expected user authentication behavior.

<div class="alert alert-info">Datadog uses third party data sources such as IPinfo and Spur to determine if an IP is a hosting provider. Datadog processes this data within Datadog infrastructure.</div>

#### Proxies

Datadog uses [Spur][8] to determine if an IP is a proxy. Datadog correlates indicators of compromise (IOCs) with account takeover attacks for faster detection with the ASM-managed account takeover rules.

Datadog recommends never blocking IP addresses solely based on threat intelligence IOCs for IP addresses. See our threat intelligence [best practices][9] for details.

Details on IPs, including ownership and threat intelligence, are available in the IP address details. Click on an IP addresses to view these details.

> There are two types of proxies frequently seen in distributed account takeovers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two types of proxies are frequently seen in distributed account takeovers:
```

> - Hosting proxies: These are proxies that exist at data centers, and are often the result of a compromised host at that data center. Guidance for interacting with hosting proxies is similar to data centers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Hosting proxies: Proxies that exist at data centers, and are often the result of a compromised host at that data center. Guidance for interacting with hosting proxies is similar to data centers.
```

> - Residential proxies: These are proxies that exist behind residential IPs. Residential proxies are frequently enabled by mobile application SDKs or browser plugins. The user of the SDK or plugin is typically unaware that they are running a proxy. It is common to see benign traffic from IP addresses identified as residential proxies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Residential proxies: Proxies that exist behind residential IPs. Residential proxies are frequently enabled by mobile application SDKs or browser plugins. The user of the SDK or plugin is typically unaware that they are running a proxy. It is common to see benign traffic from IP addresses identified as residential proxies.
```

#### Mobile ISPs

Datadog uses third parties such as IPinfo and Spur to determine if an IP is a Mobile ISP.

Exercise caution when blocking Mobile ISPs. Mobile ISPs use [CGNAT][10] and frequently have large numbers of phones behind each IP address. 

#### Attacker attributes

Use attacker attributes to target response actions.

> Datadog clusters attackers using attacker similarity and identifies the attributes of those attackers. Responders can use custom rules to block the attributes of persistent attackers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog clusters attackers by the similarity of their attributes. Responders can use custom rules to block the attributes of persistent attackers.
```
Or similar if I've mangled the meaning, I just found the sentence as written a little tough to parse out
